schroot
=======

Securely enter a chroot and run a command or login shell.

Note that giving untrusted users root access to chroots is a serious
security risk!  Although the untrusted user will only have root access
to files inside the chroot, in practice there are many obvious ways of
breaking out of the chroot and of disrupting services on the host
system.  As always, this boils down to trust.  Don't give chroot root
access to users you would not trust with root access to the host
system.

For compatibility with existing tools and scripts, wrapper binaries
for dchroot and DSA dchroot are provided.


Build Dependencies
------------------

An ISO C++ compiler supporting TR1 (e.g. GCC 4.x), or an ISO C++
compiler and the Boost libraries
libstdc++ (GNU libstdc++)
libpam0g-dev (Linux-PAM)
libboost-dev                 }
libboost-program-options-dev } The Boost C++ libraries
libboost-regex-dev           }
groff (or troff) soelim

If building from GIT, you will also need:
gettext (0.16 or greater)
doxygen
po4a (>=0.40)


Translation
-----------

If you would like to see the schroot messages output in your own
language, please consider translating the pot file (po/schroot.pot).
If you would like to see the schroot man pages in your own language,
please consider translating the pot file
(man/po4a/po/schroot-man.pot).


Building and installation
-------------------------

Please see the INSTALL file for generic installation instructions.
Note that the testsuite ("make check") should be run under fakeroot or
real root in order to work correctly.  There are the following
additional options:

  --enable-dchroot:       Build dchroot for backward compatibility
  --enable-dchroot-dsa:   Build DSA dchroot for backward compatibility
  --enable-debug:         Enable debugging features
                          (not recommended--use --debug at runtime instead)
  --enable-environment-filter
                          Enable default environment filtering (regex)
  --enable-pam            Enable support for PAM authentication
  --enable-block-device   Enable support for block devices
  --enable-lvm-snapshot   Enable support for LVM snapshots
  --enable-btrfs-snapshot Enable support for btrfs snapshots
  --enable-loopback       Enable support for loopback mounts
  --enable-union          Enable support for union mounts
  --enable-doxygen        Enable doxygen documentation

Normally configure will autodetect and enable the recommended options
if supported by your system, so the above options should not usually
be required.

Run "make doc" to make the doxygen documentation.


Configuration
-------------

See schroot.conf(5) and schroot-setup(5).


Running
-------

See schroot(1).
